FAQs
What is a Micro-Farm?
Itʼs an indoor hydroponic vertical farm. Babylonʼs technology automates the growing process,
ensuring plants get the perfect amount of light, water, and nutrients.
What does Babylon provide?
In addition to the Micro-Farm, Babylon provides seed/supplies and a mobile app to guide
customers through every step of the process. Babylon customers also have access to a
dedicated account manager for ongoing training and support.
How long does farm installation take?
About two hours.
What are the site requirements for the farm?
Your Micro-Farm requires a water line, access to power, and an adequate cellular signal.
Check out this page for more details about site requirements.
What does farm maintenance entail?
Your team on-site will be responsible for placing seed packs in the farm, transplanting
seedlings, and harvesting crops, as well as cleaning the Micro-Farm.
How much time does the Micro-Farm require each week?
Typically 30-40 minutes.
What can you grow in the Micro-Farm?
Choose from 50+ varieties of leafy greens, herbs, and flowers. Check out our Produce Menu to
see the current oﬀering by viewing our Produce Menu.
Does the farm require Wifi?
No, we provide a cellular router at install that is connected to your Micro-Farm during install.
What kind of water does the farm require?
The farm requires a supply of cold, potable water with water hardness less than 200 ppm.
What happens if something goes wrong?
Babylon staﬀ continually monitor readings from the Micro-Farmʼs many sensors, making
updates and adjustments from afar as needed. However, should an unexpected issue arise or
a customer need help, our Support team is standing by to assist via phone, text, or email.
How much support do you provide?
Your account manager will conduct an introductory training via video meeting, and thereaȦer
will provide support via phone, email and even video, as needed.
Who typically uses the farm?
Typically a dining services director or chef manages the farm, and a member of their team
handles the week to week operation.
Can children or seniors operate the farm?
Our Micro-Farms provide many opportunities for engagement in schools and at senior living
facilities, however for safety reasons only trained adults should operate the farm.
How oȦen do you Harvest? How much do you harvest?
Customers usually harvest once a week, but it can vary depending on the crops they select.
Yields also vary crop to crop, but you can expect leafy greens to yield about 4-5 pounds per
week. Your Babylon account manager will work with you to develop a schedule that suits your
needs.
