Field Operations Representative
Training Manual
Table of Contents
Introduction
2
Before you head to the Site
3
At the Site
7
The Specifics
8
Things You Need to Know
29
Introduction:
Welcome to Babylon! We’re excited to welcome you to our growing company and hope you
enjoy getting acquainted with us over the next few weeks. We try to create very close working
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
1
relationships with our customers. A key component of this relationship is maintained through
our biweekly check-ins, which ensure the quality and safety of our products. As a Field
Operations Representative, you’ll be one of the individuals performing these check-ins,
communicating issues and concerns from our customers, and reporting issues back to our
engineers and technicians. Although biweekly check-ins do involve several steps, by using our
comprehensive checklist (found in Asana), you can feel confident in your role, and we can
further guarantee our quality control as a company.
Below you’ll find a complete guide to performing biweekly customer service check-ins. Rest
assured that before we turn you loose in the field, you will perform at least one check-in with
another trained Babylon Representative. You are always welcome to reach out to other team
members with questions and concerns. We’d rather you ask any question than run the risk of
overlooking a serious issue. Your questions and observations help ensure the longevity of our
company by helping us avoid serious incidents which may compromise customer relations or
the integrity of our product.
Before You Head Into a Check-In
A biweekly check-in starts before you leave the office. When performing a check-in, or visiting
one of our offsite farms for any reason, it’s important to carry a “To Go Kit.” To Go Kits contain
all of the items you need to conduct a biweekly check-in and make quick emergency fixes. Inside
of your To Go Kit you will have a bottle of pH up (1), a bottle of pH down (2), a pH pen (3), a
small vial (4), pH testing liquid (5), a small cup (6), a shammy (7), a microfiber cloth (8), a bottle
of Biopharm “Buffer Reference Solution”(9), a bottle of sanidate cleaning solution (10), and a
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
2
bucket (11). If any of these items are missing from your bucket, please ask another
representative or the plant scientist (most of these items can be found in the chemical closet in
the seeding area.)
Before conducting a check-in you should check the internal farm graphs (which can be found at
this link: https://graph.babylon-service.com/). The login to access these graphs is
Username: farmhand
Password: babylon2020
These graphs indicate the nutrient level (EC) of the water, the pH level, and how much water
has been added to the reservoir recently. It’s important to have an idea what these readings
are before reporting to the farm so you know what to expect. Your two biggest concerns will
regard the Electrical Conductivity (EC) and the pH. Most of our farms are set to a recipe called
DEEP_SOAK_CYCLE. This recipe determines the target nutrient and pH level and how often the
farm irrigates per day. When a farm Is set to DEEP_SOAK_CYCLE, the EC should measure
between 1400 and 1800 (subject to change), and the pH should measure between 5.5 and 6.5.
If a farm is set to a different recipe, the correlated graphs should display the ideal EC and pH for
that recipe at the top of the page. Read graph measurements accordingly. Finally, you’ll want
to make sure that you have a check-in task for the appropriate site and date prepared before
you leave. Open Asana and in the left hand menu go to “checkin logging” under “customer
success.”
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
3
1
Open Asana and in the left hand menu go to checkin logging under customer success.
2
In the column titled templates scroll down scroll down to the template labelled
Customer Service Biweekly Checkin Template.
Select this template.
3
In the top right hand corner of this screen there will be three dots, click on them and
select Duplicate Task.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
4
4
Rename your task like the example below:
Finally, move that task to the column designated to the customer you’re checking in with.
Once you’ve checked the graphs, made sure that everything is in your go bucket, and created
the check-in task, you should be ready to go!
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
5
At the Site
Please note that some of the sites you visit may require security clearance. If this is the case,
simply sign in as instructed and keep a close eye on your security badge. After signing in and
locating the farm, you’re ready to begin your check-in. Pull up Asana and make sure that you’re
connected to the internet. This could be through the wifi of the building that you’re in, or
through your own personal hotspot. Locate the task that you previously duplicated, and run
down the list to ensure that you cover and check everything.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
6
The Specifics
The Farm
Zones 1-8
Zones 1-8 are designated for plants that have completed germination and have been
transplanted to finish their growing cycle. Each of these zones is fitted with a tray, and each of
these trays should be outfitted with what we refer to as a “lid.” The lids in these zones should
look like this.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
7
In each of these holes there should be a “net cup.” Net cups help hold transplanted plants
securely while they continue to grow, and help minimize clogging from rockwool throughout our
system. The net cups we use currently look like the one pictured below.
Zones 9 and 10
Zones 9 and 10 are the bottom two zones and are slightly different from the above zones.
These two will likely be equipped with different lids. One of these zones will be used for
germination, so the lids will be equipped to hold full 20x10 germination trays. The lids should
look like this
Additionally, the 10x20 trays will look like this
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
8
If the customer has chosen to grow microgreens, the other bottom zone will be outfitted with
the same lid.. If the customer has not decided to grow microgreens, the other bottom zone will
be outfitted with the same lids as those featured above, equipt to hold transplanted crops
within net cups.
*The layout of each customers’ farm will likely not impact your work. However, understanding
the customer’s options and choices can improve the quality of service that you are able to
provide, and help prepare you for any situation in the field.
Another important component of these bottom two zones are the provided Humidors or
humidity domes (pictured below). Humidors help to regulate the humidity level of individual
zones of the farm. We have found that higher humidity correlates with higher rates of
germination, so we prefer customers use humidors on each microgreen/germination tray in
their farm. Most customers should have between 2 and 4 humidors.
A final note about humidors is to ensure that they are being used properly. Humidors should be
placed so that they sit flush on top of each tray, and the black vents on top should be halfway
open to avoid the growth of mold and allow for adequate air circulation.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
9
When going through all of the steps expected of you during a site visit, it’s important that you
understand the process for each. Above you’ll find a simple map of the farm to better help you
understand all of its features and components. This should also help you to locate everything
that you’ll need to check during your visit.
To perform the check-in, you’ll first need to remove the front panel of the farm in order to
completely access the reservoir and nutrient bottles. The reservoir is located underneath the
farm, behind the bottom panel.
To remove this panel, you’ll need to pull up and towards yourself using the handles. In order to
avoid damaging the farm, refer to the visual below in order to understand the necessary
movements to remove the front panel.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
10
Below is a simple diagram of our current reservoir model. From left to right:
Computer Components: You will very rarely, if ever, need to access the inside of this box- you
should only need to get inside if you need to flip the breakers located within in the event of a
lighting or technical malfunction.
Nutrients: Customers should be able to replace nutrients on their own, however, in the event
that they need your assistance, ALWAYS ensure that the correct line goes into the correct bottle.
To ensure this is done correctly, only replace one bottle at a time. ALWAYS replace a Nutrient A
bottle with a new Nutrient A bottle, ALWAYS replace a Nutrient B bottle with a new Nutrient B
bottle, and ALWAYS replace a pH Stabilizer bottle with a new pH Stabilizer bottle.
The Leak Detector: the leak detector is very sensitive, and will go off if you touch it with even
slightly damp hands. If you arrive at a site and there is overflow or a leak, the alarm on the leak
detector should be going off. Additionally, it should have alerted the greater company
automatically. Remove the leak detector from the water and dry is thoroughly, it will stop
sounding on its own once it’s dry.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
11
The Reservoir: the reservoir is where nutrients are mixed and fresh water is pumped into the
farm- it is also where you will be taking pH and EC tests from.
The entirety of this area pulls out for convenience. When pulling this area out, only pull using
the bottom metal bar with your hands in the areas in the picture above with red circles. Be
careful when doing this however, as, if you pull it out too far, water will leak onto the floor and it
may be difficult to get the farm properly back together at the end of your check in.
* You’ll notice that the front panels on our newest model do not look like those on the
farm pictured above, please note that the panel is still in the same area of the farm
You should have a key that allows you to access all the farms. If you have any questions or
concerns, please reach out to another Babylon representative, via the Customer Support Slack
channel.
Step 1:
The first step to a check-in is referring to the previously mentioned graphs, if everything looks
good and there are no irregularities, mark this step complete and move on. If there are
irregularities in the graphs, take screenshots of these irregularities and add the pictures to a
comment in this section of the task.
You can add comments within the Asana Check in task by selecting the icon circled below
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
12
Step 2:
The next step is manually checking the pH and EC of the farm.
1
Pull out the reservoir far enough that you are able to comfortably reach your arm
inside. Be careful here, if you pull the reservoir out too far the drainage system could
miss the reservoir and flood the floor underneath. As long as you’re careful this is
unlikely, but it’s important that you are aware.
2
To manually take the pH of the farm, start with the liquid pH formula. Fill the vial in
your go kit approximately halfway with water from the reservoir.
3
Add 3 drops of the pH tester solution. Mix the formula gently, and refer to the color
indicators on the bottle. If the graphs looked good, then the color should be a yellow
gold.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
13
If the solution turns bright red
Or dark green
*Take note of this, it is likely that the farm’s pH is too high or too low, and the water
in the farm may need to be replaced.
4
Next you’ll test the pH using the electronic pen in your go kit. Remove the pen from
your go kit and turn it on by pressing the left hand button
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
14
and press the right hand button until your pen is properly set to pH.
Place the pen in the water and wait until the numbers stop going up or down. This
can take a minute or two. Waving the pen gently in the water can help speed up this
process. Record this number and the pH according to the liquid solution. As stated
previously, the ideal pH is between 5.5 and 6.5. If the pH is in the ideal range, you’re
done taking the pH manually, and you can proceed with the check-in by testing the
EC.
*If the pH is too high or too low, move on using the following steps.
**If the pH is SIGNIFICANTLY too high or too low, refer to the directions starting on
page 27, titled: pH Issues
5
IF the pH is just slightly too high or too low, it is important that you let a technician or
engineer know so that they can ensure nothing major is wrong with the farm. In the
meantime, you can fix the problem by using the pH up or down solution included in
your go kit. Start by adding no more than a capful of the appropriate solution (if the
pH is too low pH up, and if the pH is too high, pH down).
6
Next, you’ll need to refer to your app to make sure the mixture is incorporated into
water. Open your Babylon Guided Growing app, and ensure that you have the
correct farm open
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
15
7
Select the tab labelled Maintenance
8
Select Controls
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
16
9
Flip off “Autofarmer”
10
Select Advanced
Then press Proceed
11
And flip on Cycling Pump
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
17
12
This will cycle the water, effectively mixing the solution you just added. Some of the
controls here can compromise the success of the farm, however, this setting will
not, so feel free to let it run for a few minutes. Just don’t forget to put the farm
back into autofarmer when you are done.
While the cycling pump is running, or if the pH was within the ideal range, change the setting on
your pen to test EC:
1
Press the right hand button on the pen
Until you reach this setting
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
18
The EC of a farm should be between 1400 and 1800, but as long as the EC is below
2000, the farm should be ok. Record the EC in the comment section of this step.
2
IF the EC of the farm is significantly above 2000 or below 1400, you’ll need to reach
out to an engineer or technician. It is likely that there is an undetected issue with the
sensors on the farm, and the nutrients are being pumped incorrectly. The
engineer(s) will probably need to recalibrate or replace the sensors. Ensure that you
make a note of this, or any issue, on the appropriate Asana tab.
3
Always ensure that you properly store your pH pen in the storage solution found in
your Site Visit Go Kit. Simply put a small amount of Biopharm “Buffer Reference
Solution” into the cap of your pen before snapping it all back together. Always turn
your pen off when it is storage to save battery life.
Step 3:
The next step is easy- do the plants look healthy? Record a comment on this step briefly
discussing the quality of the plants in the farm. If anything really needs trimmed back or
harvested, include that here. If something looks dry or unhealthy, take note of that here as
well.
Step 4:
You’ll see that the next step asks if you’ve created any necessary tickets for issues at the farm.
Skip this step for now, until you can be certain that there are no (other) issues with the farm.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
19
Step 5:
On the next step, only leave a note if you needed to bring any parts to the farm that you might
have forgotten.
Step 6:
For the next step, check each nutrient bottle. Make a comment on this section with how full
they are, so that we can ensure a new bottle will be supplied when necessary.
Step 7:
Check the bottom zones (usually germination will only be taking place in one or both of the
bottom two zones.) How does the germination look in these zones? You can always check the
app to see how far along these seeds should be to make sure that everything is going well. You
can also make a note of whether or not humidors are being used in this farm in the germination
zones.
Step 8:
Next you’ll need to make sure that the farm is responding properly to the app.
1
Open your Babylon Guided Growing app.
2
Select the farm that you are checking in with
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
20
3
Go to the Maintenance section
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
21
4
Select Controls
5
Flip off Autofarmer
6
Ensure that the Pump and Fan are both flipped on and the Light is flipped off
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
22
7
Flip Autofarmer back on
If the light in the farm comes back on properly, then everything is working how it
should.
8
Next ensure that everything in Controls is set properly, and looks like the picture
below
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
23
If everything looks correct, mark this step complete
Step 9:
Before you leave, you will need to properly store the electronic pH pen from your “Go Kit.” To
do this, you will need to put a small amount of the biopharm reference buffering solution into
the cap of the pen. Just a small splash should be enough. Using this solution ensures longevity
of the electronic pen, so that all of your check-ins can be accurate.
Step 10:
If everything went well with you check-in, you can now mark the tickets step (previously
skipped) complete. If there are any issues, you’ll need to make a ticket to ensure that the farm
is properly repaired.
1
Open asana and select Customer Issue Resolution under the Customer Success tab.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
24
2
Select Add Task
3
Include a brief explanation of the issue that needs to be resolved, and be sure to
assign this task to the appropriate engineer/ technician so that it can be completed.
Step 11:
Finally add any important customer comments to the final step of the full checklist.
Step 12:
You can now mark the entire task complete!
Step 13:
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
25
Ensure that the farms are properly closed and locked (if that’s necessary for the farm you’re
checking) make sure that the reservoir is pushed all the way back in, and that all the drains are
properly draining into the reservoir. Return the metal cover to the front of the reservoir, and
you’re done.
*If you were visiting a farm for which you needed security clearance, make sure that you return
your security badge before leaving the property!
Things you need to know:
As a field operations representative, your check-ins and interactions with customers help us to
avoid potential disaster. This means that if there are any serious issues with the farm during
your visit you should report them right away. Some issues that you may need to resolve right
away include leaks, serious pH issues, and drain clogs. There may be other issues that you may
be tasked with diagnosing and resolving as well, but these will be the most likely and most
common. Below is a brief walk through of what you’ll need to do in the event of any of these
issues.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
26
Leaks and overflows:
Working with such large amounts of water means that there is always the risk for serious leaks
and potential flooding. Though our customers have signed contracts and waivers stating that
they understand this risk, these issues could spell disaster for their business, and serious
damage for our own. It’s important that you understand how to respond in the event of a
serious leak or overflow so that the problem can be effectively resolved with minimal damage
to all parties.
Step 1:
If you arrive at a site and find a leaking farm, the first thing you should always do is shut the
farm off.
1
Open your app and ensure that you’re in the proper farm
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
27
2
Select Maintenance
3
Select Controls
4
Select Advanced
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
28
And press Proceed
5
And ensure that nothing has been manually turned on by the customer. Ideally, the
controls SHOULD look like this:
If the controls don’t look like the example above, turn off anything that shouldn’t be
on.
6
Next, if all the controls were correct, you’ll most likely need to shut the farm off
completely in order to identify the source of the leak, and to clean up whatever
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
29
water has spilled into the surrounding area. We recommend shutting off everything
in the app first, so that the control panel looks like this:
7
After doing this, you should also unplug the farm for your own safety. Our farms
have a lot of electronic parts, and though the potential of you being injured is very
low, it is best for your own safety and the safety of the farm to unplug it before going
forward.
Once the farm is unplugged, you’ll need to identify the source of the leak. Leaks can come from
a number of places in the farm and can be caused by:
-
Misaligned downspout
-
Clogging from lose rockwool or other debris
-
Overflowing or damaged reservoir
1
Misaligned Downspout
The downspout might be sitting flush on top of the lids. If this is the case, then
simply realign the lids and downspout, then explain why this happened to the
available Farm Operator to avoid this complication in the future.
2
Clogging from Loose Rockwool or Other Debris
Rockwool may be clogging the drains. When left sitting in the water for longer than
advised, the RockWool may deteriorate to the point of falling apart. If this happens,
it could potentially clog the drains, flood the trays, and lead to an overflow and
inevitable leak. To fix this, turn off the farm, as discussed above, to stop the flow of
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
30
water. Remove the filter covering the drain in the overflowing tray and clean the
deteriorated rockwool off completely. If the tray is not draining after these actions
have been taken, it is completely safe for you to gently stick a finger into the drain
and see if the clog is near the top of the tubing. If the leak is clearly coming from a
clog, but you are unable to resolve it because of its location in the tube, reach out to
your engineer/ technician. They may be able to talk you through the process of
resolving a clog like this on the phone, or they may need to come to your location.
If you are able to resolve the clog on your own, let the tray drain completely, replace
the filter, and turn the farm back on. Let the Farm Operator know what caused this
overflow, and advise them to clean their farm out on schedule and whenever
notified by the app to avoid this problem in the future.
3
Overflowing Reservoir
It is possible, but unlikely, that flooding may be caused by an overflowing reservoir.
This could be caused by a malfunction with the reservoir float valve, or a human
error in the app. It could also just happen because of a bug or glitch. If this is the
case, shut off the farm as laid out above. Remember to unplug the farm as well, for
your own safety. If there is a mass amount of water, you may need a shop vac or
mop to remove most of the water. In the event of an overflow,
engineers/technicians will likely need to run additional tests to ensure that the farm
can safely be turned back on and resume operation, so be sure to contact them to
fill them in on the details of what you discovered. Locate towels, and mop up the
water to the best of your ability. Once you’ve cleaned as much of the water as
possible, completely empty your To Go Kit. Use this bucket to empty some of the
water out of the reservoir, until the water is low enough that you are able to insert
the sump pump without further overflow. Pump out some of the water, according
to the directions below, and wait on your engineer to determine whether the
reservoir will need to be completely emptied to proceed.
4
Damaged Reservoir
This is a very unlikely reason for a leak to occur, however this issue does and has
happened. Sometimes reservoirs can have manufacturing errors, or can develop an
issue over time. If there is clearly a leak, ensure first that the reservoir cover is
properly placed and that this isn’t what might be causing the issue.
*Regardless of what may have caused a leak, as a Field Operations Representative an essential
part of your job is quality customer service. Always help your customers to clean up after a leak
and maintain complete transparency as to what caused the issue.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
31
pH Issue:
As discussed above, if the pH is slightly off (meaning it isn’t lower than 4.5), you can correct it by
adding a capful of pH up or pH down. However, if the pH is significantly low you will most likely
need to completely drain the reservoir and refill the farm. First, you’ll need to check the graphs.
If the graphs are reading with the proper pH, it is likely that the sensor will need to be
calibrated. If this is the case, you will need to contact an engineer or technician to correct this
problem immediately. Even if the reservoir is drained and refilled, if the sensor isn’t calibrated,
the water will return to being seriously unbalanced. While you are waiting for your engineer,
you can begin draining the reservoir if need be (only if it is at a pH of 4.5 or below). All farms
are equipped with a pump and hose to drain the reservoir for monthly cleaning, this is what
you’ll need to use to empty the reservoir in the event of a pH issue. To drain and reset the farm,
use the cleaning mode in your Babylon Guided growing app.
1
To set the farm to cleaning mode, enter into the Babylon Guided Growing App.
2
Ensure that you’ve selected the correct farm from the menu in your app
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
32
3
Select the Maintenance option in the app
4
Select the Clean option in the maintenance menu
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
33
5
Toggle the Clean Mode on
6
Once “clean mode” is toggled on you can drain the reservoir of the farm. To drain
the reservoir, you will need the pump and hose mentioned earlier. We use two
different types of pumps and as a Field Op, you may come into contact with both.
It’s important that you know the differences between these two pumps and how to
use both of them properly for your own personal safety. The first pump picture
below CANNOT be placed directly into the reservoir. The small hose included with
this pump should be attached to the side indicated below
The other pump that you will encounter CAN be placed directly into the reservoir
and needs to be in order to work properly. Attach the hose to the area indicated
below and place the pump directly into the reservoir, being careful to keep the
power cord from being completely submerged into the water.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
34
7
If you are using the first pump pictured above, attach the triangular filter to the
opposite end of the hose as pictured below, This will prevent any large debris from
clogging your pump.
8
If you are using the first pump picture above, place the triangular filter directly into
the reservoir. Again, DO NOT place this model of pump directly into the reservoir. It
is not able to be submerged and will break.
9
If you are using the first pump pictured above, attach the long hose to the side of the
pump labelled outlet port
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
35
10
For both pumps, place the opposite end of this hose into the allocated drain or sink.
If you are unsure where to find the allocated drain, refer to the Primary Farm
Operator at the site you are visiting.
11
Both models of pumps will turn on as soon as they are plugged in.
12
Pump all the water out of the reservoir. When the water gets low enough that the
pump begins taking in air, you can unplug the pump and move on with the process
13
Once the reservoir is completely empty, remove the pump and set it aside. Return
the reservoir to the proper position and flip through the instructions on the cleaning
page. On the last page of the cleaning menu toggle the “fill and dose” option. This
will properly refill the reservoir, and once the sensors are properly calibrated
everything will operate properly.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
36
Ideally, the engineer(s) will be present at this point and will be able to test the sensor, and
recalibrate them as necessary. Once this is complete and the reservoir is refilled, take the pH of
the reservoir again, to ensure that the issue has been resolved.
© Babylon Micro-Farms 2020
37
